# What is MolSysMT?

MolSysMT -**Mol**ecular **Sys**tems **M**ulti **T**oolkit - is a scientific
open-source Python library designed to facilitate work with molecular models
and simulations.

This library was developed to provide a user-friendly interface for
computational molecular biology labs, such as the
[UIBCDF](https://www.uibcdf.org/), to use in their research. With MolSysMT, you
can streamline the integration of workflows involving molecular models and
molecular dynamics trajectories.

While most of the functions and methods in MolSysMT were purposefully developed
and in-house programmed, the inclusion of native objects and functions was not its
primary goal, nor is it the strongest reason to use it. The main strength of
MolSysMT lies in its flexibility and adaptability, making it a valuable tool
for supporting workflows with molecular models and simulations. MolSysMT was
not designed to replicate the capabilities of other tools that may excel in
specific areas. Instead, it was conceived as an easy-to-use tool for
coordinating and integrating the use of libraries such as MDAnalysis, MDTraj,
PDBFixer, OpenMM, ParmED, HTMD, RDKit, or NGLView, among other extremely useful
libraries. Whenever you use methods or tools from these packages, all credit
should be given to their respective authors, developers, maintainers, and
contributors.

MolSysMT is an open-source project shared under the MIT license. This means
that you have the right to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute,
sublicense, and/or sell copies without any limitations.

If you have suggestions, improvements, enhancement proposals, if you miss a
functionality, or you have identified a bug or a malfunction, feel free to
contribute to its development or interact with the authors and contributors by
using the [MolSysMT public GitHub repository](https://github.com/uibcdf/MolSysMT).

When using MolSysMT, it is important to understand that the authors and
contributors do not provide any legal warranty or assume any liability of any
kind regarding its use and results.

We hope you find it useful!

The authors.

<br/>

<br/>

:::{figure} ../../_static/logo.svg
:width: 50%
:align: center
:::

<br/>

<br/>

